---
layout: nothing
tags: storyEN
author: Kinga Rusin
youtube: "http://youtu.be/X8qig8bnCN8"
title: Veni, vidi, vichy
---
The farther into the forest, the more the trees - the farther from high school, the less space in the cosmetics bag. With such a philosophical view Julia began her day, looking at the arsenal accumulated in the bathroom. The times when soap and water were enough passed more or less half way through elementary school. A wave of transformation swept the nation, and with her - a wave of pimples. It’s good that no one even dreamed yet about the Internet and cameras in a phone, for at least there is no incriminating evidence. The one advantage of all of this growing up was that it passed as quickly as the fashion for jackets made from crash textile. One needs to confess though, that the following fifteen years flew by quickly. And now Julia is who she is and looks as you can see.

Supposedly there is no reason to complain, but a sharp eye - especially Julia’s eye - immediately caught symptoms of disintegration and destruction: a battle was waged on her face day after day, which Julia had to win. The massive wrinkle attacks, treacherous landings of discolorations and blasts of bursting vessels required a continuous arms race.

That’s why Julia started each day with an inspection of her ammunition and a counter strategy. On the front lines were sent specialised deep penetration materials - the enemy needed to be awaken and immediately neutralized. Reaching for micellar liquid, Julia in her thoughts counted all her allies listed on the packaging: each ecological certificate was worth as much as the best marine unit. It’s true that checking them required some effort, but it was worth it. Julia had enough of those pretending to be natural, with their alleged “bio” which brought more harm than good. Oh no - do your eco brain washing on another battlefield.

After a quick review of the troops Julia reached for the heaviest artillery. Sitting until late last night in the club unfortunately left its traces and now mother nature needs to be called to the rescue. Cream from ecologically grown crops, tonic with natural minerals and soap without parabens - Julia felt as if Captain Planet himself came to the rescue. For a moment she imagined herself as she fights an entire army of bacteria and other filth, while landfills of residual dirt disappear forever in the washbasin.

Now a critical look in the mirror - somewhat better, but she still can’t lay down her weapons.  Fortunately, there was still an hour before having to leave for work, many such a war could be won in such time. Applying the foundation, Julia thought about all those who do not share her love for morning clashes and slept carefree, while she fought so fiercely. Her younger colleague for example - recently admitted she just needs a morning shower and at the most mascara. Julia was overcome with horror, as if she saw a ghost or other alien.

“What do you mean? What about wrinkles? Isn’t old age approaching in the steps of a sprinter? Girl, in a few years do you really want look like your own grandmother in pictures? Of course technology has advanced and there are various filters or other instagrams, but you can’t deceive yourself. The more that young skin soaks in, the more one saves with plastic surgery.

From the good of her heart, Julia brought her friend samples from her own stock pile, but neither threats nor requests achieved anything. Yes, her friend was interested in the shampoo with the bunny symbol, but for a short time and only because she loves animals. For sure, she loves! But her shower gel was tested on half of the African jungle. Don’t those people really think about their future? You are what you eat and what you smear on yourself (another proverb from the series she wrote - good, isn’t it?). After all, these packages of pseudo cosmetics in the shops, in packs of four rather than in one large container and imported from God knows what part of Asia, is one large biological bomb! Radiation, chemistry and conflagration for the environment. And then later people are surprised by falling acid rains and tsunamis that come up on the Baltic. Strike the planet and the rubbish will reply, that’s the truth.

Well, Julia won’t force them to be happy. She’ll mind her own business and in a few years they’ll see who was right. Under the condition that they’ll recognize her under tonnes of botoks.

Daydreaming about catastrophic visions, Julia forgot for a moment about the ongoing war. Suddenly, however, like the firing of a cannon at Samosierra, the alarm clock reminded her about leaving for work.

“Oh no, here I am thinking about acid rains, and in twenty minutes I have my first meeting!” Quickly, the last manoeuvre and time to inspect the fortifications. Powder - present. Lipstick - present. Painted eyelashes - present. Lip liner, blush, concealer and eye liner - at their positions. No signs of old age will get past.

Leaving the bathroom, Julia glanced once more for a quick check. Whew. Not so bad for someone who will turn thirty next year. Captain Planet for certain wouldn’t be able to resist her.
